Add EIP-6093: Custom errors for commonly-used tokens (#6093)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6093.md

---
eip: 6093
title: Custom errors for commonly-used tokens

> description: Lists custom errors for common token implementations

Reviewer: I think we can expand the description a bit. Maybe:

```suggestion
description: Structured custom errors for common tokens (EIP-20, EIP-721, and EIP-1155)
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I'm slightly more biased toward your proposal, but there's a [competing comment](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/6093#discussion_r1042115588) I've already accepted.

I'll leave it open in case someone else wants to comment on this.

---
eip: 6093

> title: Custom errors for ERC tokens

Author: I'd like to think a little bit about this. There was a bit of discussion defining it on our side and I'd root for something clearly defined and less vague as `commonly-used`.

Some may argue any not included token may be added based on subjectivity around what `common means`, and we'd like to clearly scope this to EIP-20, EIP-721 and EIP-1155

> description: List of Solidity custom errors covering standard token implementations (EIP-20, EIP-721 and EIP-1155)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Lists custom errors for common token implementations
```
This can't contain the word "standard", and is slightly too long.

Author: I agree with the suggestion, but same comments as [here](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/6093#discussion_r1042227787) for the word `common`.

I'll update if I find a better way around.

author: Ernesto García (@ernestognw), Francisco Giordano (@frangio), Hadrien Croubois (@Amxx)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-6093-custom-errors-for-erc-tokens/12043
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
requires: 20, 721, 1155
created: 2022-12-06
---

## Abstract

This EIP defines a standard set of Solidity custom errors to be used by [EIP-20](./eip-20.md), [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), and [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md) tokens.

Ethereum applications (DApps) and wallets have historically relied on revert reason strings to show the cause of transaction errors to users. More recent Solidity versions offer rich revert reasons that require error-specific decoding (sometimes referred to as "custom errors"). This EIP defines a standard set of errors designed to give at least the same relevant information as revert reason strings, but in a structured and expected way that clients can implement decoding for.

## Motivation

> Since the introduction of Solidity custom errors in v0.8.4, these have provided a way to show failures in a more expresive way with dynamic arguments, while reducing deployment costs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the introduction of Solidity custom errors in v0.8.4, these have provided a way to show failures in a more expresive and gas efficient manner with dynamic arguments, while reducing deployment costs.
```

> At the moment of the release of custom errors, the standard tokens ([EIP-20](./eip-20.md), [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md)) were already in finalized state, so no errors are included in their specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, [EIP-20](./eip-20.md), [EIP-721](./eip-721.md), [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md) were already finalized when custom errors were released, so no errors are included in their specification.
```

> An error specification will allow users to expect more consistent error messages across applications or testing environments, while exposing pertinent arguments and overall reducing the need of writing expensive revert strings in the deployment bytecode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Standardized errors allow users to expect more consistent error messages across applications or testing environments, while exposing pertinent arguments and overall reducing the need of writing expensive revert strings in the deployment bytecode.
```

- MUST be used for disallowed approvals from the zero address.
- MUST NOT be used for transfer operations.

#### `ERC20InvalidSpender(address spender)`

Indicates a failure with the `spender` to be approved.
Used in approvals.

- MUST be used for disallowed approvals to the zero address.
- MUST be used for disallowed approvals to the owner itself.
- MUST NOT be used for transfer operations.
  - Use `ERC20InsufficientAllowance` instead.

### [EIP-721](./eip-721.md)

#### `ERC721InvalidOwner(address sender, uint256 tokenId, address owner)`

Indicates an error related to the ownership over a particular token.
Used in transfers.

- MUST be used when `sender` is not `owner`.
- MUST NOT be used for approval operations.

#### `ERC721InvalidSender(address sender)`

Indicates a failure with the token sender.
Used in transfers.

- MUST be used for disallowed transfers from the zero address.
- MUST NOT be used for approval operations.
- MUST NOT be used for ownership or approval requirements.
  - Use `ERC721InvalidOwner` or `ERC721InsufficientApproval` instead.

#### `ERC721InvalidReceiver(address receiver)`

Indicates a failure with the token receiver.
Used in transfers.

> - MUST be used for disallowed transfers to the zero address.
> - MUST be used for disallowed transfers to non-ERC721TokenReceiver contracts or those that reject a transfer. (eg. returning an invalid response in `onERC721Received`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MUST be used for disallowed transfers to the zero address.
- MUST be used for disallowed transfers to non-`ERC721TokenReceiver` contracts or those that reject a transfer. (eg. returning an invalid response in `onERC721Received`).
```

Indicates a failure with the `operator` to be approved.
Used in approvals.

- MUST be used for disallowed approvals to the zero address.
- MUST be used for disallowed approvals to the owner itself.
- MUST NOT be used for transfer operations.
  - Use `ERC721InsufficientApproval` instead.

### [EIP-1155](./eip-1155.md)

#### `ERC1155InsufficientBalance(address sender, uint256 balance, uint256 needed, uint256 tokenId)`

Indicates an error related to the current `balance` of a sender.
Used in transfers.

- MUST be used when `balance` is less than `needed` for a `tokenId`.
- MUST NOT be used if `balance` is equal or greater than `needed` for an `tokenId`.

#### `ERC1155InvalidSender(address sender)`

Indicates a failure with the token sender.
Used in transfers.

- MUST be used for disallowed transfers from the zero address.
- MUST NOT be used for approval operations.
- MUST NOT be used for balance or allowance requirements.
  - Use `ERC1155InsufficientBalance` or `ERC1155InsufficientApproval` instead.

#### `ERC1155InvalidReceiver(address receiver)`

Indicates a failure with the token receiver.
Used in transfers.

- MUST be used for disallowed transfers to the zero address.

> - MUST be used for disallowed transfers to non-ERC1155TokenReceiver contracts or those that reject a transfer. (eg. returning an invalid response in `onERC1155Received`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- MUST be used for disallowed transfers to non-`ERC1155TokenReceiver` contracts or those that reject a transfer. (eg. returning an invalid response in `onERC1155Received`).
```

    error ERC721InvalidSender(address sender);
    error ERC721InvalidReceiver(address receiver);
    error ERC721InsufficientApproval(address operator, uint256 tokenId);
    error ERC721InvalidApprover(address approver);
    error ERC721InvalidOperator(address operator);
}

/// @title Standard ERC1155 Errors
/// @dev See https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155
///  https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6093
interface ERC1155Errors {
    error ERC1155InsufficientBalance(address sender, uint256 balance, uint256 needed, uint256 tokenId);
    error ERC1155InvalidSender(address sender);
    error ERC1155InvalidReceiver(address receiver);
    error ERC1155InsufficientApproval(address operator, uint256 tokenId);
    error ERC1155InvalidApprover(address approver);
    error ERC1155InvalidOperator(address operator);
    error ERC1155InvalidArrayLength(uint256 idsLength, uint256 valuesLength);
}
```

## Security Considerations

There are no known signature hash collision for the specified errors.

Tokens upgraded to implement this EIP may break assumptions in other systems relying on revert strings.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

> ## Citation
> 
> Please cite this document as:
> 
> Ernesto García, Francisco Giordano, Hadrien Croubois, "EIP-6093: Standard Token Errors [DRAFT]," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, no. 6093, November 2022. [Online serial]. Available: https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6093.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This section is automatically generated by Jekyll.

Author: Amazing, thanks 🙌
